# HTML & CSS CA

Title: SQUARE EYES movie streaming website

#Summary of report#

This report is consent with the building of a movie streaming website using programing languages which in this case is “HTML and CSS”. I build a movie streaming website with title “SQUARE EYES” from our design prototype which was constructed with the figma application. The html language was used to write in codes with regards to the contents of the site while I use css for the styling; the VSCODE application was the code editor we use to write in all the necessary codes for this work. The site comprises of seven main pages which are highly interactive among each other, diffferent html codes classes were used for the writing in the contents of the site. CSS coding for the styling and practicing all the means to apply the DRY css principle also serve as one major objective I try to follow while carrying out this work.

#Introduction#

This work is center on the building of a movie streaming website from the design prototype to the writing of codes using HTML and CSS with the code editor VSCODE. The site’s contents are coded using html for the various different pages while CSS was sued for the styling of the contents to fit the design of the site we had earlier built. The site is built to fit on all screen sizes as well as different browser, the @media query property was used to ensure we meet up the screen resolution and browser support issue in CSS. This site is made up of different pages that are highly interactive with the help of link codes to link up the pages. Our site is constructed with age target of 25-40 years and for an international community hence the choice of movies as well as language used.

#Main section of report#

In the course of this work, different html classes were used for the code writing for the content of the site. One of the main difficulties faced during writing these codes was choosing the right class codes and the right place to insert them. Also due to the fact that the codes written were mostly personal codes, I had to write and rewrite the codes due to errors and some poor indenting in the html. The image sizes were another difficulty I faced with the image size criteria being less than 200kb for easy loading of the different pages of the site. There was also some difficulty in building our site same as we had earlier designed it in figma.

For a good code writing, I had to do more reading and research on good html codes with good semantics in mind; the course material served as basic reference for my work. I also rely on watching many video tutorials of experience developers which helped me in writing my codes while maintaining good semantics, teacher and students’ interaction during this work also played an important role for the feedbacks and completion of this work. In order to resolve the difficulty of the image sizes, I used the imagecompressor.com site to reduce the sizes of my images but still got some of the images above 200kb for my image source didn’t have much of low kb images. Also, I had to copy my banner image from my design in figma for I had difficulty scaling it just as it was in the design I had made, I as well did some few modifications in my design to match up the website coding by removing and adding certain features.A change of mobile and small screen device design in order to fit the building of the website, mobile homepage device slightly different from final product; images are display in a column for the website but are display in a row for the design. A resize of the images to fit the row display had poor visual quality hence I decided to display them in a column form in the home page.

In regards to the styling of our website, I used CSS codes to style my contents and ensure they look as in the design of the site, but added a header background color to keep elements of the header more visible when scrolling. The CSS codes were written while holding in mind the DRY principle of which for this reason I had to choose two screen resolution. The screen sizes were based on small screen sizes of which maximum with is 899px and the big screens of minimum width of 900px. Writing my CSS styling codes with these two type of screen sizes help in maintain the DRY principle in my codes. I started the styling with the small size screens and therefore applied the @media query only on the big screen size.

#Conclusion#
The task of this work had to do with the building of a website using mainly HMTL and CSS, a movie streaming website was built with these two programing languages with the code editor vscode. The html was sued for coding our site contents while CSS was used to style the contents and to make the web site responsive among different screen sizes and to be accessible within different web browsers. A movie website with a netlify link and github repository all consist the end products that I was able to achieve at the end of this work.

/Comments on the javascript pages/

In this section, I did the API calls for the index.html page, the movie.html and product.html page so as to fetch for the products directly from the API. The product displayed on the index page are limited to just three products considered the home products. In the movie page, the result of the API call displays all the products we need for the site with their various id. The productdetails page shows the user the different information about a particular product which has been clicked from the movie page.

Javascript sythax such queryselector, querystring, for loop(with the break option), for each, innerHTml were all used to display contents between the html pages and the javascript pages correctly for the user.
